---
layout: post
title:  "Work Life"

excerpt: "It probably won’t surprise you to know that, though 90% of what I share online relates to my work, thinking about breakpoints, JS plugins, and fonts isn’t all I do.
I love my family. I like science fiction movies and F1 racing. I worry about whether or not my hair is going to fall out (which probably increases the chance that it’ll actually happen)."
---

#Work Life
It probably won’t surprise you to know that, though 90% of what I share online relates to my work, thinking about breakpoints, JS plugins, and fonts isn’t all I do.
I love my family. I like science fiction movies and F1 racing. I worry about whether or not my hair is going to fall out (which probably increases the chance that it’ll actually happen).

I bet you’re the same. What you share online only captures a fragment of who you are as a person. Your stream of photos, status updates, links, and posts most likely revolves around a handful of interests, and that’s what the online world knows of you. A few days ago, Joshua Blankenship expressed this really well in a couple of tweets:

What I share on the web (and am known for) is mostly work-related. I love that part of my life, but it’s just one part. If I focus too much on that one aspect (Trent-the-worker) I often wonder if I, myself, am in danger of becoming a “poor substitute” in real life.

##Discovery should be fun.
As web designers we need to know more about our clients than what typically fits in a brochure. So, if you get a .zip folder full of outdated tri-folds and TPS reports, ask for more. After all, no one really wants to build for a business he’s not excited about. And because it’s a two-way street, why not tip the scales of equal disclosure in your favor and start by telling your client about yourself or your team. Swapping backstories, working styles, values, and talents builds trust and sets the team up to become effective consultants. This can be conducted in whichever way works best for you. Make a webpage, video, pdf, or simply get on the phone.

In doing so, keep in mind that sparse or inaccessible discovery content can be just as unhelpful as the excessively wordy or over produced. To me, brand deck presentations with lens flare transitions, unsubstantiated info-graphics, and words like synergy, leverage, and the cloud are smoke and mirrors. If teams are going to work well together they’ve got to get real right off the bat. Be yourself and tell it like it is. What are the problems with the business or website currently? What aspects of either underperform? What are the stakes and criteria for evaluating success?

##Show & Tell Listen
Early in the planning process at Paravel, we love to show sketches or rough wireframes. The goal isn’t to get something approved as much as it is to start a discussion. It’s a simple, tiny thing, but within this discussion much can be achieved. With sketches, everyone is going to be less invested (in every sense of the word) than with fully comped layouts or fully built prototypes—therefore, team members aren’t afraid to pick things apart. As they share & debate ideas, the collaborative working relationship is established.

##Cubicle worker illustration
It’s amazing what you can learn by listening carefully to someone’s take on why something doesn’t work instead of cherry picking the things that do. Then, once a team agrees on where they are headed, they can start a dialogue about how best to get there, airing out specific differences in opinion and perception along the way.

##Correspond Effectively
I spend a lot of time trading feedback & planning via email or basecamp. I try to consistently edit things down and carefully consider tone as much as possible. It’s a valuable part of the work because it shows respect for both the collaborator’s time and the clear communication of ideas. Because Each person is different, so much of the correspondence is nuanced in tone to suit each personality.

However, certain topics can be more straightforward. I have, for instance, written the same message about the difficulties of implementing video on the web properly at least 6 times this year. The same goes for explanations on why we set responsive breakpoints to content rather than to device, or how no design technique or UI enhancement will ever make up for bad content. I’ve noticed that both the content and quality of these responses are influenced by focus levels, schedules, ringing phones, etc.. Ideally, I’d be able to take all the best points from each message and edit them into one concise response.

##Communication illustration
I have therefore decided to start indexing these brief explanations with links to supporting articles so that I can A) save time by reusing them, and B) build an easily updatable Paravel knowledge base. I should emphasize that something like this is not an attempt to automate collaborative relationships, but rather to enhance them by freeing up time to focus on the personal & specific parts of discussion. Also, I feel like an ass when I link to my own blog. That said, I’ve got a few ideas for how I might go about this.

-I could create a group in TextExpander, populating it with snippet explanations paired to hotkeys for quick access.
-I could create a folder of Markdown files, one file for each topic.
-I could create a simple WordPress blog, hosted either locally or online, creating a post for each explanation topic. Each entry would be tagged for quicker access if the amount of information grows over time.